README.md, before:

# WebGL Raytracer
A simple realtime raytracer made with JavaScript and WebGL. Requires browser with WebGL 2.0 support (Edge Chromium gives best peformance) and a somewhat powerful GPU.

View demo in here: https://jassenousiainen.github.io/

The ray tracing happens completely in the fragment shader, which is found in the file `fragment.glsl`. The vertex shader only calculates the origin and direction of the rays.
The contents of both of these shader files are then just copied to inline HTML.
The program uses no vertex buffers, instead it uses the indices of the three vertices of the fullscreen triangle.

## Features
- Fully realtime ray-traced, rasterization is only used for the full screen triangle
- Intersection for sphere and plane primitives (and rectangles with currently only fixed direction)
- Phong shading model for diffuse and specular illumination
- Supports point lights and rectangle area lights with customizable size
- Smooth shadows for area lights with customizable number of samples
- Global illumination with customizable number of samples
- Mirror reflections with customizable number of bounces (also GI in reflections)
- Free-fly perspective camera, use WASD -keys to move and mouse while holding left mouse button to look around
- ACES tonemapping

Note that I have made this application just for the purpose of learning WebGL, so there might be multiple bugs and errors.

## Screenshots
![screen1](/screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true)
![screen2](/screenshots/screenshot2.png?raw=true)
![screen3](/screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

Improved performance and reduced noise
- Fast shader uses fibonacci sphere for uniform indirect light directions
- Improved branching
- Loops use glsl es 3.0 supported conditionals

README.md, after:

# WebGL Raytracer
A simple realtime raytracer made with JavaScript and WebGL. Requires browser with WebGL 2.0 support (Edge Chromium gives best peformance) and a somewhat powerful GPU.

View demo in here: https://jassenousiainen.github.io/

The ray tracing happens completely in the fragment shader, which is found in the file `fragment.glsl`. The vertex shader only calculates the origin and direction of the rays.
The contents of both of these shader files are then just copied to inline HTML.
The program uses no vertex buffers, instead it uses the indices of the three vertices of the fullscreen triangle.

## Features
- Fully realtime ray-traced, rasterization is only used for the full screen triangle
- Intersection for sphere and plane primitives (and rectangles with currently only fixed direction)
- Phong shading model for diffuse and specular illumination
- Supports point lights and rectangle area lights with customizable size
- Smooth shadows for area lights with customizable number of samples
- Indirect illumination with customizable number of samples and per-material roughness factor
- Mirror reflections with customizable number of bounces (also GI in reflections)
- Free-fly perspective camera, use WASD -keys to move and mouse while holding left mouse button to look around
- ACES tonemapping
- Two shaders: fast and quality (fast is recommended, as it provides up to 10x performance)
- Fast shader includes optimizations such as: dynamic shadow sampling and semi-random indirect sampling using fibonacci sphere

Note that I have made this application just for the purpose of learning WebGL, so there might be multiple bugs and errors.

## Screenshots
![screen1](/screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true)
![screen2](/screenshots/screenshot2.png?raw=true)
![screen3](/screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true)
